docs/skia.md, before:

# Skia build notes

Drift uses `libdrift_skia.a`, which combines Skia with the Drift bridge code.
The bridge is pre-compiled at CI/build time, so app developers using prebuilt
binaries don't need Skia headers - only the `skia_bridge.h` header included in
the drift module. Building from source still requires a full Skia checkout.

The drift CLI searches for libraries in these locations (in order):

1. `<drift_module>/third_party/drift_skia/` - source builds take priority
2. `<project>/third_party/drift_skia/` - project-local customization
3. `~/.drift/drift_skia/` - downloaded prebuilt binaries (fallback)

Skia source is still checked out under `third_party/skia`; build outputs are copied into `third_party/drift_skia/`.

The library paths (relative to any of the above locations) are:

- Android: `android/<arch>/libdrift_skia.a`
- iOS device: `ios/<arch>/libdrift_skia.a`
- iOS simulator: `ios-simulator/<arch>/libdrift_skia.a`

Supported architectures:

| Platform      | Architectures           |
|---------------|-------------------------|
| Android       | `arm64`, `arm`, `amd64` |
| iOS device    | `arm64`                 |
| iOS simulator | `arm64`, `x64`          |


## Setup

Skia libraries are automatically downloaded when you run `drift build` for the first time. No manual setup is required for most users.

## Option 1: Automatic download (recommended)

When you run `drift build`, missing Skia libraries are automatically downloaded:

```bash
drift build android    # auto-downloads Android libraries if missing
drift build ios        # auto-downloads iOS libraries if missing
```

To disable auto-download and fail with an error instead:

```bash
drift build android --no-fetch
```

## Option 2: Manual download

You can manually download libraries using the `fetch-skia` command:

```bash
drift fetch-skia              # fetch all platforms
drift fetch-skia --android    # android only
drift fetch-skia --ios        # ios only
drift fetch-skia --version v0.2.0  # specific version
```

The command downloads tarballs from `https://github.com/go-drift/drift/releases`, verifies SHA256 checksums, and extracts them to `~/.drift/lib/<version>/`.

Version is determined automatically from the CLI version, or you can set `DRIFT_VERSION` environment variable or use the `--version` flag.

## Option 3: Legacy shell script

A shell script is also available for environments where the drift CLI is not installed:

```bash
DRIFT=$(go env GOMODCACHE)/github.com/go-drift/drift@<version>

# Fetch both Android and iOS
$DRIFT/scripts/fetch_skia_release.sh

# Fetch only one platform
$DRIFT/scripts/fetch_skia_release.sh --android
$DRIFT/scripts/fetch_skia_release.sh --ios
```

## Option 4: Build from source

For source builds, you need a writable checkout of the drift repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/go-drift/drift.git
DRIFT_SRC=$PWD/drift

# Or, copy the module cache entry to a writable location
cp -R "$(go env GOMODCACHE)/github.com/go-drift/drift@<version>" "$PWD/drift"
DRIFT_SRC=$PWD/drift
```

Building from source requires:
- Python 3
- Ninja build system
- For Android: `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` environment variable set

### Fetch Skia source

```bash
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/fetch_skia.sh
```

This clones Skia from `https://skia.googlesource.com/skia`, checks out the latest `main`, and runs `git-sync-deps` to fetch dependencies.

### Build for Android

```bash
export ANDROID_NDK_HOME=/path/to/android-ndk
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/build_skia_android.sh
```

Builds `libdrift_skia.a` for `arm64`, `arm`, and `amd64` using NDK API level 21 with OpenGL ES support. The script compiles Skia, then compiles the drift bridge and combines them into a single static library. Output is written to `third_party/drift_skia/android/`.

### Build for iOS

Requires macOS with Xcode command line tools (the script uses `xcrun` and `libtool`).

```bash
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/build_skia_ios.sh
```

Builds `libdrift_skia.a` for:
- Device: `arm64`
- Simulator: `arm64` (Apple Silicon), `x64` (Intel)

Uses Metal for GPU rendering. The script compiles Skia, then compiles the drift bridge and combines them using libtool. Output is written to `third_party/drift_skia/ios/` and `third_party/drift_skia/ios-simulator/`.

### Build for iOS using xtool (Linux)

If you have [xtool](https://xtool.sh) set up for iOS development on Linux, you can cross-compile Skia without macOS:

```bash
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/build_skia_xtool.sh
```

The script auto-detects the iOS SDK from `~/.xtool/sdk/iPhoneOS.sdk` (set up via `xtool setup`) and uses the system clang with `--target` flags for cross-compilation. It creates wrapper scripts to translate Skia's macOS-style `-arch` flags.

Requirements:
- xtool with iOS SDK (`xtool setup /path/to/Xcode.xip`)
- System clang (14+)
- Python 3, Ninja

Output is written to `third_party/drift_skia/ios/`. Simulator builds are skipped if `iPhoneSimulator.sdk` is not present.

Commit message:

docs: clean up README and Skia documentation
- Restructure Quick Start with clear "drift init" vs manual setup options
- Replace legacy fetch_skia_release.sh references with drift fetch-skia CLI
- Rename "Option 2: Manual download" to "Option 2: Fetch via CLI" in skia.md
- Remove legacy shell script option, renumber "Build from source" to Option 3
- Add Skia Binaries section to xtool-setup.md with drift fetch-skia --ios
- Fix incomplete comment in pkg/skia/skia.go

docs/skia.md, after:

# Skia build notes

Drift uses `libdrift_skia.a`, which combines Skia with the Drift bridge code.
The bridge is pre-compiled at CI/build time, so app developers using prebuilt
binaries don't need Skia headers - only the `skia_bridge.h` header included in
the drift module. Building from source still requires a full Skia checkout.

The drift CLI searches for libraries in these locations (in order):

1. `<drift_module>/third_party/drift_skia/` - source builds take priority
2. `<project>/third_party/drift_skia/` - project-local customization
3. `~/.drift/drift_skia/` - downloaded prebuilt binaries (fallback)

Skia source is still checked out under `third_party/skia`; build outputs are copied into `third_party/drift_skia/`.

The library paths (relative to any of the above locations) are:

- Android: `android/<arch>/libdrift_skia.a`
- iOS device: `ios/<arch>/libdrift_skia.a`
- iOS simulator: `ios-simulator/<arch>/libdrift_skia.a`

Supported architectures:

| Platform      | Architectures           |
|---------------|-------------------------|
| Android       | `arm64`, `arm`, `amd64` |
| iOS device    | `arm64`                 |
| iOS simulator | `arm64`, `x64`          |


## Option 1: Automatic download (recommended)

Skia libraries are automatically downloaded when you run `drift build` for the first time. No manual setup is required for most users.

When you run `drift build`, missing Skia libraries are automatically downloaded:

```bash
drift build android    # auto-downloads Android libraries if missing
drift build ios        # auto-downloads iOS libraries if missing
```

To disable auto-download and fail with an error instead:

```bash
drift build android --no-fetch
```

## Option 2: Fetch via CLI

You can manually download libraries using the `fetch-skia` command:

```bash
drift fetch-skia              # fetch all platforms
drift fetch-skia --android    # android only
drift fetch-skia --ios        # ios only
drift fetch-skia --version v0.2.0  # specific version
```

The command downloads tarballs from `https://github.com/go-drift/drift/releases`, verifies SHA256 checksums, and extracts them to `~/.drift/lib/<version>/`.

Version is determined automatically from the CLI version, or you can set `DRIFT_VERSION` environment variable or use the `--version` flag.

## Option 3: Build from source

Building from source is intended for drift contributors or users who need custom Skia builds. Most app developers should use the prebuilt binaries (Options 1 or 2).

For source builds, you need a writable checkout of the drift repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/go-drift/drift.git
DRIFT_SRC=$PWD/drift
```

Building from source requires:
- Python 3
- Ninja build system
- For Android: `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` environment variable set

### Fetch Skia source

```bash
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/fetch_skia.sh
```

This clones Skia from `https://skia.googlesource.com/skia`, checks out the latest `main`, and runs `git-sync-deps` to fetch dependencies.

### Build for Android

```bash
export ANDROID_NDK_HOME=/path/to/android-ndk
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/build_skia_android.sh
```

Builds `libdrift_skia.a` for `arm64`, `arm`, and `amd64` using NDK API level 21 with OpenGL ES support. The script compiles Skia, then compiles the drift bridge and combines them into a single static library. Output is written to `third_party/drift_skia/android/`.

### Build for iOS

Requires macOS with Xcode command line tools (the script uses `xcrun` and `libtool`).

```bash
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/build_skia_ios.sh
```

Builds `libdrift_skia.a` for:
- Device: `arm64`
- Simulator: `arm64` (Apple Silicon), `x64` (Intel)

Uses Metal for GPU rendering. The script compiles Skia, then compiles the drift bridge and combines them using libtool. Output is written to `third_party/drift_skia/ios/` and `third_party/drift_skia/ios-simulator/`.

### Build for iOS using xtool (Linux)

If you have [xtool](https://xtool.sh) set up for iOS development on Linux, you can cross-compile Skia without macOS:

```bash
$DRIFT_SRC/scripts/build_skia_xtool.sh
```

The script auto-detects the iOS SDK from `~/.xtool/sdk/iPhoneOS.sdk` (set up via `xtool setup`) and uses the system clang with `--target` flags for cross-compilation. It creates wrapper scripts to translate Skia's macOS-style `-arch` flags.

Requirements:
- xtool with iOS SDK (`xtool setup /path/to/Xcode.xip`)
- System clang (14+)
- Python 3, Ninja

Output is written to `third_party/drift_skia/ios/`. Simulator builds are skipped if `iPhoneSimulator.sdk` is not present.
