website-docs/guides/media-player.md, before:

---
id: media-player
title: Media Player
sidebar_position: 12
---

# Media Player

Drift provides native media playback through two APIs: the `VideoPlayerController` for embedded video with platform controls, and the `AudioPlayerController` for headless audio playback with a custom UI. Audio and video controllers share the same method set but are separate types. The video controller creates its native surface eagerly on construction, while the audio controller defers native player creation until the first method call.

Both APIs deliver callbacks on the UI thread, so you can update widget state directly without wrapping calls in `drift.Dispatch`.

## Video Player

The `VideoPlayer` widget embeds a native video player (ExoPlayer on Android, AVPlayer on iOS) with built-in transport controls including play/pause, seek bar, and time display.

Create a `VideoPlayerController` with `UseController`, set callbacks, and pass it to the widget:

```go
import (
    "time"

    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/core"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/platform"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/theme"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/widgets"
)

type playerState struct {
    core.StateBase
    controller *platform.VideoPlayerController
    status     *core.ManagedState[string]
}

func (s *playerState) InitState() {
    s.status = core.NewManagedState(&s.StateBase, "Idle")
    s.controller = core.UseController(&s.StateBase, platform.NewVideoPlayerController)

    s.controller.OnPlaybackStateChanged = func(state platform.PlaybackState) {
        s.status.Set(state.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnPositionChanged = func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration) {
        s.status.Set(position.String() + " / " + duration.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnError = func(code, message string) {
        s.status.Set("Error (" + code + "): " + message)
    }

    s.controller.Load("https://example.com/video.mp4")
}

func (s *playerState) Build(ctx core.BuildContext) core.Widget {
    return widgets.Column{
        Children: []core.Widget{
            widgets.VideoPlayer{
                Controller: s.controller,
                Height:     225,
            },
            widgets.Row{
                Children: []core.Widget{
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Pause", func() {
                        s.controller.Pause()
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Seek +10s", func() {
                        pos := s.controller.Position()
                        s.controller.SeekTo(pos + 10*time.Second)
                    }),
                },
            },
        },
    }
}
```

Width and Height set explicit dimensions in logical pixels. To fill available width, wrap the widget in layout widgets such as `Expanded` inside a `Row`:

```go
widgets.Row{
    Children: []core.Widget{
        widgets.Expanded{
            Child: widgets.VideoPlayer{
                Controller: s.controller,
                Height:     225,
            },
        },
    },
}
```

Set all callbacks before calling `Load`, `Play`, or any other playback method. Callbacks are checked when events arrive from the native player, so any assigned after playback starts may miss early events.

`UseController` registers a dispose callback automatically, so the controller is released when the widget is removed from the tree. Disposing a controller that is still buffering silently cancels playback; no further callbacks are delivered. For non-widget contexts (tests, standalone services), use `platform.NewVideoPlayerController()` directly and call `Dispose()` manually.

### VideoPlayer Widget Fields

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `Controller` | `*platform.VideoPlayerController` | The controller that provides the native surface and playback control |
| `Width` | `float64` | Player width in logical pixels |
| `Height` | `float64` | Player height in logical pixels |

### VideoPlayerController Methods

All methods are safe for concurrent use. Set callback fields before calling `Load`.

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Load(url string) error` | Load a media URL. The native player begins buffering the media source. |
| `Play() error` | Start or resume playback |
| `Pause() error` | Pause playback |
| `Stop() error` | Stop playback and reset to idle. Media stays loaded; calling `Play` restarts from the beginning. Use `Dispose` to release resources. |
| `SeekTo(position time.Duration) error` | Seek to a position |
| `SetVolume(volume float64) error` | Set volume (0.0 to 1.0). Values outside this range are clamped by the native player. |
| `SetLooping(looping bool) error` | Enable or disable looping |
| `SetPlaybackSpeed(rate float64) error` | Set playback speed (1.0 = normal). Must be positive; behavior for zero or negative values is platform-dependent. |
| `State() PlaybackState` | Current playback state |
| `Position() time.Duration` | Current playback position |
| `Duration() time.Duration` | Total media duration |
| `Buffered() time.Duration` | Buffered position |
| `ViewID() int64` | Platform view ID, or 0 if the view was not created |
| `Dispose()` | Release native resources. The controller must not be reused after disposal. |

### VideoPlayerController Callbacks

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `OnPlaybackStateChanged` | `func(PlaybackState)` | Called when playback state changes (UI thread) |
| `OnPositionChanged` | `func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration)` | Called approximately every 250ms while media is loaded (UI thread) |
| `OnError` | `func(code, message string)` | Called when a playback error occurs (UI thread) |

## Audio Player

`AudioPlayerController` provides audio playback without a visual component. It uses a standalone platform channel, so there is no embedded native view. Build your own UI around the controller.

Multiple controllers may exist concurrently, each managing its own native player instance. Call `Dispose` to release resources when a controller is no longer needed.

```go
import (
    "time"

    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/core"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/platform"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/theme"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/widgets"
)

type audioState struct {
    core.StateBase
    controller *platform.AudioPlayerController
    status     *core.ManagedState[string]
}

func (s *audioState) InitState() {
    s.status = core.NewManagedState(&s.StateBase, "Idle")
    s.controller = core.UseController(&s.StateBase, platform.NewAudioPlayerController)

    // Callbacks are delivered on the UI thread.
    s.controller.OnPlaybackStateChanged = func(state platform.PlaybackState) {
        s.status.Set(state.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnPositionChanged = func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration) {
        s.status.Set(position.String() + " / " + duration.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnError = func(code, message string) {
        s.status.Set("Error (" + code + "): " + message)
    }

    s.controller.Load("https://example.com/song.mp3")
}
```

Set all callbacks before calling `Load`, `Play`, or any other playback method. Callbacks are checked when events arrive from the native player, so any assigned after playback starts may miss early events.

`UseController` registers a dispose callback automatically, so the controller is released when the widget is removed from the tree. Disposing a controller that is still buffering silently cancels playback; no further callbacks are delivered. For non-widget contexts (tests, standalone services), use `platform.NewAudioPlayerController()` directly and call `Dispose()` manually.

### AudioPlayerController Methods

All methods are safe for concurrent use. Set callback fields before calling `Load`.

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Load(url string) error` | Load a media URL. The native player begins buffering the media source. |
| `Play() error` | Start or resume playback |
| `Pause() error` | Pause playback |
| `Stop() error` | Stop playback and reset to idle. Media stays loaded; calling `Play` restarts from the beginning. Use `Dispose` to release resources. |
| `SeekTo(position time.Duration) error` | Seek to a position |
| `SetVolume(volume float64) error` | Set volume (0.0 to 1.0). Values outside this range are clamped by the native player. |
| `SetLooping(looping bool) error` | Enable or disable looping |
| `SetPlaybackSpeed(rate float64) error` | Set playback speed (1.0 = normal). Must be positive; behavior for zero or negative values is platform-dependent. |
| `State() PlaybackState` | Current playback state |
| `Position() time.Duration` | Current playback position |
| `Duration() time.Duration` | Total media duration |
| `Buffered() time.Duration` | Buffered position |
| `Dispose()` | Release native resources. Idempotent; safe to call more than once. |

### AudioPlayerController Callbacks

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `OnPlaybackStateChanged` | `func(PlaybackState)` | Called when playback state changes (UI thread) |
| `OnPositionChanged` | `func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration)` | Called approximately every 250ms while media is loaded (UI thread) |
| `OnError` | `func(code, message string)` | Called when a playback error occurs (UI thread) |

### Example: Transport Controls with Seek

```go
func (s *audioState) Build(ctx core.BuildContext) core.Widget {
    return widgets.Column{
        Children: []core.Widget{
            widgets.Text{Content: s.status.Get()},
            widgets.Row{
                Children: []core.Widget{
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Play", func() {
                        s.controller.Play()
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Pause", func() {
                        s.controller.Pause()
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Stop", func() {
                        s.controller.Stop()
                    }),
                },
            },
            widgets.Row{
                Children: []core.Widget{
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Seek +10s", func() {
                        pos := s.controller.Position()
                        s.controller.SeekTo(pos + 10*time.Second)
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Loop", func() {
                        s.controller.SetLooping(true)
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Mute", func() {
                        s.controller.SetVolume(0)
                    }),
                },
            },
        },
    }
}
```

## Playback States

Both video and audio players share the same `PlaybackState` enum (defined in `platform`). Use the `String()` method for human-readable labels.

| State | Value | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| `PlaybackStateIdle` | 0 | Player created, no media loaded |
| `PlaybackStateBuffering` | 1 | Buffering media data before playback can continue |
| `PlaybackStatePlaying` | 2 | Actively playing media |
| `PlaybackStateCompleted` | 3 | Playback reached the end of the media |
| `PlaybackStatePaused` | 4 | Paused, can be resumed |

Errors are delivered through the `OnError` callback rather than as a playback state.

## Error Codes

Control methods like `Load` and `Play` return an `error` that indicates a communication failure with the native player (for example, calling a method after disposal). The `OnError` callback fires for playback-time errors reported by the native player, such as network failures or unsupported codecs.

Both controllers use canonical error codes that are consistent across Android and iOS.

| Code | Constant | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| `"source_error"` | `platform.ErrCodeSourceError` | Media source could not be loaded (network failure, invalid URL, unsupported format) |
| `"decoder_error"` | `platform.ErrCodeDecoderError` | Media could not be decoded or rendered (codec failure, DRM error) |
| `"playback_failed"` | `platform.ErrCodePlaybackFailed` | General playback failure that does not fit a more specific category |

Native implementations map platform-specific errors to these codes, so error handling behaves the same on Android and iOS.

```go
controller.OnError = func(code, message string) {
    switch code {
    case platform.ErrCodeSourceError:
        // Network or URL issue, prompt user to check connection
    case platform.ErrCodeDecoderError:
        // Format not supported on this device
    default:
        // General failure
    }
    log.Printf("playback error [%s]: %s", code, message)
}
```

## Next Steps

- [Platform Services](/docs/guides/platform) - Permissions, clipboard, haptics, and other platform APIs
- [Widget Catalog](/docs/category/widget-catalog) - Detailed usage for every Drift widget
- [State Management](/docs/guides/state-management) - Managing widget state

Commit message:

feat(scaffold): add allow_http config for cleartext HTTP traffic

website-docs/guides/media-player.md, after:

---
id: media-player
title: Media Player
sidebar_position: 12
---

# Media Player

Drift provides native media playback through two APIs: the `VideoPlayerController` for embedded video with platform controls, and the `AudioPlayerController` for headless audio playback with a custom UI. Audio and video controllers share the same method set but are separate types. The video controller creates its native surface eagerly on construction, while the audio controller defers native player creation until the first method call.

Both APIs deliver callbacks on the UI thread, so you can update widget state directly without wrapping calls in `drift.Dispatch`.

## Video Player

The `VideoPlayer` widget embeds a native video player (ExoPlayer on Android, AVPlayer on iOS) with built-in transport controls including play/pause, seek bar, and time display.

Create a `VideoPlayerController` with `UseController`, set callbacks, and pass it to the widget:

```go
import (
    "time"

    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/core"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/platform"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/theme"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/widgets"
)

type playerState struct {
    core.StateBase
    controller *platform.VideoPlayerController
    status     *core.ManagedState[string]
}

func (s *playerState) InitState() {
    s.status = core.NewManagedState(&s.StateBase, "Idle")
    s.controller = core.UseController(&s.StateBase, platform.NewVideoPlayerController)

    s.controller.OnPlaybackStateChanged = func(state platform.PlaybackState) {
        s.status.Set(state.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnPositionChanged = func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration) {
        s.status.Set(position.String() + " / " + duration.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnError = func(code, message string) {
        s.status.Set("Error (" + code + "): " + message)
    }

    s.controller.Load("https://example.com/video.mp4")
}

func (s *playerState) Build(ctx core.BuildContext) core.Widget {
    return widgets.Column{
        Children: []core.Widget{
            widgets.VideoPlayer{
                Controller: s.controller,
                Height:     225,
            },
            widgets.Row{
                Children: []core.Widget{
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Pause", func() {
                        s.controller.Pause()
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Seek +10s", func() {
                        pos := s.controller.Position()
                        s.controller.SeekTo(pos + 10*time.Second)
                    }),
                },
            },
        },
    }
}
```

Width and Height set explicit dimensions in logical pixels. To fill available width, wrap the widget in layout widgets such as `Expanded` inside a `Row`:

```go
widgets.Row{
    Children: []core.Widget{
        widgets.Expanded{
            Child: widgets.VideoPlayer{
                Controller: s.controller,
                Height:     225,
            },
        },
    },
}
```

Set all callbacks before calling `Load`, `Play`, or any other playback method. Callbacks are checked when events arrive from the native player, so any assigned after playback starts may miss early events.

`UseController` registers a dispose callback automatically, so the controller is released when the widget is removed from the tree. Disposing a controller that is still buffering silently cancels playback; no further callbacks are delivered. For non-widget contexts (tests, standalone services), use `platform.NewVideoPlayerController()` directly and call `Dispose()` manually.

### VideoPlayer Widget Fields

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `Controller` | `*platform.VideoPlayerController` | The controller that provides the native surface and playback control |
| `Width` | `float64` | Player width in logical pixels |
| `Height` | `float64` | Player height in logical pixels |

### VideoPlayerController Methods

All methods are safe for concurrent use. Set callback fields before calling `Load`.

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Load(url string) error` | Load a media URL. The native player begins buffering the media source. |
| `Play() error` | Start or resume playback |
| `Pause() error` | Pause playback |
| `Stop() error` | Stop playback and reset to idle. Media stays loaded; calling `Play` restarts from the beginning. Use `Dispose` to release resources. |
| `SeekTo(position time.Duration) error` | Seek to a position |
| `SetVolume(volume float64) error` | Set volume (0.0 to 1.0). Values outside this range are clamped by the native player. |
| `SetLooping(looping bool) error` | Enable or disable looping |
| `SetPlaybackSpeed(rate float64) error` | Set playback speed (1.0 = normal). Must be positive; behavior for zero or negative values is platform-dependent. |
| `State() PlaybackState` | Current playback state |
| `Position() time.Duration` | Current playback position |
| `Duration() time.Duration` | Total media duration |
| `Buffered() time.Duration` | Buffered position |
| `ViewID() int64` | Platform view ID, or 0 if the view was not created |
| `Dispose()` | Release native resources. The controller must not be reused after disposal. |

### VideoPlayerController Callbacks

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `OnPlaybackStateChanged` | `func(PlaybackState)` | Called when playback state changes (UI thread) |
| `OnPositionChanged` | `func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration)` | Called approximately every 250ms while media is loaded (UI thread) |
| `OnError` | `func(code, message string)` | Called when a playback error occurs (UI thread) |

## Audio Player

`AudioPlayerController` provides audio playback without a visual component. It uses a standalone platform channel, so there is no embedded native view. Build your own UI around the controller.

Multiple controllers may exist concurrently, each managing its own native player instance. Call `Dispose` to release resources when a controller is no longer needed.

```go
import (
    "time"

    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/core"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/platform"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/theme"
    "github.com/go-drift/drift/pkg/widgets"
)

type audioState struct {
    core.StateBase
    controller *platform.AudioPlayerController
    status     *core.ManagedState[string]
}

func (s *audioState) InitState() {
    s.status = core.NewManagedState(&s.StateBase, "Idle")
    s.controller = core.UseController(&s.StateBase, platform.NewAudioPlayerController)

    // Callbacks are delivered on the UI thread.
    s.controller.OnPlaybackStateChanged = func(state platform.PlaybackState) {
        s.status.Set(state.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnPositionChanged = func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration) {
        s.status.Set(position.String() + " / " + duration.String())
    }
    s.controller.OnError = func(code, message string) {
        s.status.Set("Error (" + code + "): " + message)
    }

    s.controller.Load("https://example.com/song.mp3")
}
```

Set all callbacks before calling `Load`, `Play`, or any other playback method. Callbacks are checked when events arrive from the native player, so any assigned after playback starts may miss early events.

`UseController` registers a dispose callback automatically, so the controller is released when the widget is removed from the tree. Disposing a controller that is still buffering silently cancels playback; no further callbacks are delivered. For non-widget contexts (tests, standalone services), use `platform.NewAudioPlayerController()` directly and call `Dispose()` manually.

### AudioPlayerController Methods

All methods are safe for concurrent use. Set callback fields before calling `Load`.

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Load(url string) error` | Load a media URL. The native player begins buffering the media source. |
| `Play() error` | Start or resume playback |
| `Pause() error` | Pause playback |
| `Stop() error` | Stop playback and reset to idle. Media stays loaded; calling `Play` restarts from the beginning. Use `Dispose` to release resources. |
| `SeekTo(position time.Duration) error` | Seek to a position |
| `SetVolume(volume float64) error` | Set volume (0.0 to 1.0). Values outside this range are clamped by the native player. |
| `SetLooping(looping bool) error` | Enable or disable looping |
| `SetPlaybackSpeed(rate float64) error` | Set playback speed (1.0 = normal). Must be positive; behavior for zero or negative values is platform-dependent. |
| `State() PlaybackState` | Current playback state |
| `Position() time.Duration` | Current playback position |
| `Duration() time.Duration` | Total media duration |
| `Buffered() time.Duration` | Buffered position |
| `Dispose()` | Release native resources. Idempotent; safe to call more than once. |

### AudioPlayerController Callbacks

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `OnPlaybackStateChanged` | `func(PlaybackState)` | Called when playback state changes (UI thread) |
| `OnPositionChanged` | `func(position, duration, buffered time.Duration)` | Called approximately every 250ms while media is loaded (UI thread) |
| `OnError` | `func(code, message string)` | Called when a playback error occurs (UI thread) |

### Example: Transport Controls with Seek

```go
func (s *audioState) Build(ctx core.BuildContext) core.Widget {
    return widgets.Column{
        Children: []core.Widget{
            widgets.Text{Content: s.status.Get()},
            widgets.Row{
                Children: []core.Widget{
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Play", func() {
                        s.controller.Play()
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Pause", func() {
                        s.controller.Pause()
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Stop", func() {
                        s.controller.Stop()
                    }),
                },
            },
            widgets.Row{
                Children: []core.Widget{
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Seek +10s", func() {
                        pos := s.controller.Position()
                        s.controller.SeekTo(pos + 10*time.Second)
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Loop", func() {
                        s.controller.SetLooping(true)
                    }),
                    theme.ButtonOf(ctx, "Mute", func() {
                        s.controller.SetVolume(0)
                    }),
                },
            },
        },
    }
}
```

## Playback States

Both video and audio players share the same `PlaybackState` enum (defined in `platform`). Use the `String()` method for human-readable labels.

| State | Value | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| `PlaybackStateIdle` | 0 | Player created, no media loaded |
| `PlaybackStateBuffering` | 1 | Buffering media data before playback can continue |
| `PlaybackStatePlaying` | 2 | Actively playing media |
| `PlaybackStateCompleted` | 3 | Playback reached the end of the media |
| `PlaybackStatePaused` | 4 | Paused, can be resumed |

Errors are delivered through the `OnError` callback rather than as a playback state.

## Error Codes

Control methods like `Load` and `Play` return an `error` that indicates a communication failure with the native player (for example, calling a method after disposal). The `OnError` callback fires for playback-time errors reported by the native player, such as network failures or unsupported codecs.

Both controllers use canonical error codes that are consistent across Android and iOS.

| Code | Constant | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| `"source_error"` | `platform.ErrCodeSourceError` | Media source could not be loaded (network failure, invalid URL, unsupported format) |
| `"decoder_error"` | `platform.ErrCodeDecoderError` | Media could not be decoded or rendered (codec failure, DRM error) |
| `"playback_failed"` | `platform.ErrCodePlaybackFailed` | General playback failure that does not fit a more specific category |

Native implementations map platform-specific errors to these codes, so error handling behaves the same on Android and iOS.

```go
controller.OnError = func(code, message string) {
    switch code {
    case platform.ErrCodeSourceError:
        // Network or URL issue, prompt user to check connection
    case platform.ErrCodeDecoderError:
        // Format not supported on this device
    default:
        // General failure
    }
    log.Printf("playback error [%s]: %s", code, message)
}
```

## Cleartext HTTP URLs

Android (API 28+) and iOS block cleartext HTTP traffic by default. If you load an `http://` URL, the native player will report a `source_error`. HTTPS URLs work without any extra configuration.

To allow HTTP URLs, set `allow_http: true` in your `drift.yaml`:

```yaml
app:
  allow_http: true
```

This adds `android:usesCleartextTraffic="true"` to the Android manifest and an `NSAppTransportSecurity` exception to the iOS Info.plist. Use HTTPS whenever possible and only enable this setting when your media source does not support it.

## Next Steps

- [Platform Services](/docs/guides/platform) - Permissions, clipboard, haptics, and other platform APIs
- [Widget Catalog](/docs/category/widget-catalog) - Detailed usage for every Drift widget
- [State Management](/docs/guides/state-management) - Managing widget state
